%%
\section{Introduction} \label{Ch:intro}

{\ifeffit} is a program and programming library for analyzing x-ray
absorption fine-structure (XAFS) data.  As its name may suggest,
{\ifeffit}{\footnote{The name was originally intended to stand for
    {\program{interactive}} {\feffit}, but I sort of like the simple
    self-declarative nature of the name as well as the literary allusion to
    {\textsl{I, Claudius}} and {\textsl{I, Robot}}.  It could also be
    interpreted as the answer to the question, "How do you analyze your
    XAFS data?".  It is in no way intended as a subliminal insertion of
    {\feff} into that {\emph{other}} Chicago technological institute known
    to do some XAFS.}}  
gives an interactive method for fitting XAFS data using calculations from
{\feff}, and is based on the fitting program {\feffit} of the {\uwxafs}
Analysis Package.  There have been significant additions to {\feffit}, and
the user interface has been completely rewritten.

{\ifeffit} is a complete XAFS analysis package, allowing general data
manipulation, analysis, and plotting, as well as meeting the unique demands
of analyzing XAFS data.  For those of you familiar with the {\uwxafs}
Package, {\ifeffit} combines the functionality of {\autobk} and {\feffit}
and adds many more features.  A major goal of {\ifeffit} is to make a
graphical user interface (GUI) for XAFS analysis, but {\ifeffit} is not
simply a GUI program by itself.  It is, instead, a command-based library
that can be run either as a command-line program or called from other
programs, including both graphical and non-graphical interfaces.  At this
writing, an enhanced command-line program named {\gifeffit} is distributed
with {\ifeffit}, and the GUI programs {\program{athena}},
{\program{artemis}}, {\program{tkatoms}}, and {\program{sixpack}} make use
of {\ifeffit}.

This {\textsl{Reference Guide}} describes the commands and syntax of
{\ifeffit}, and is intended for people who want direct access to the
underlying '{\ifeffit} engine', either directly from the command-line
program or through their analysis scripts.  While some people may be
satisfied with high-level GUI wrappers, many scientists appreciate a
simple, scriptable command-based interface to a set of core XAFS analysis
routines.  The commands and syntax described here are an attempt to provide
such an interface.

This guide starts with an example in Chapter~\ref{Ch:Basics} and then
discusses the general syntax and structure of the commands in
Chapter~\ref{Ch:Structure}.  The next several chapters give more in-depth
information about input and output files, plotting, fitting XAFS data with
{\feff} calculations, and fitting non-XAFS data to simple functions.
Chapter~\ref{Ch:Commands} lists all the commands and their complete syntax.
Chapter~\ref{Ch:Macros} discusses writing simple macros for {\ifeffit} and
more complicated scripts using scripting languages.

In addition to this {\textsl{Reference Guide}}, there is also {\textsl{The
    {\ifeffit} Tutorial}} which gives a more gentle introduction to
{\ifeffit}.  More information about {\ifeffit}, including installation
instructions, further examples, a searchable mailing list, and the other
documention are available with the source code and at the {\ifeffit} web
site: {\WWWiff}

\subsection*{Acknowledgements} \label{ch:intro-ack}

{\ifeffit} was written with helpful suggestions from Julie~Cross,
Bruce~Ravel, and John~Rehr.  More detailed and up to date acknowledgements
can be found in the {\file{THANKS}} file distributed with {\ifeffit}.

