
======================================
==  ifeffit command-line executable ==
======================================

The files in this directory create the executable program ifeffit, the
primary command shell to the Ifeffit library.  This program uses the GNU
ReadLine package, so that command editing is quite good, with the arrow
keys working to scroll through previous commands, tab completion (hitting
the tab key tries to complete partially typed words), and emacs bindings
for moving around the command line, including:
   Control-a   move to beginning of line
   Control-e   move to end-of-line
   Control-k   cut line from cursor to end-of-line to 'buffer'
   Control-y   paste buffer at cursor position.

To start the program, type 'ifeffit'.  You'll get a command prompt at which
you can type ifeffit commands.  A limited number of Unix shell commands
(ls, more, cd, pwd) are also supported, and '!' can be used to escape to
the Unix shell.

For the first word on a command line, tab-completion will expand a limited
number of commands (ifeffit as well as shell commands).  Type 'help' at the
command prompt for a complete list of commands that will complete.  Hitting
tab on the second word will complete a file in the current directory.

== Startup file ==

If found, ifeffit will load a file called  .ifeffit in your home directory
on startup.  This is simply an ifeffit command file allowing pre-defined
macros and customization, as if you had typed  
  load '/home/.../.ifeffit'
 
each time you launched the program.

== History file ==

ifeffit will save the command you type to the file .ifeffit_hist in your
home directory.  This file will be loaded on startup, so that the up-arrow
will go through your previous ifeffit session.  The history file is limited
to 500 lines, and is written when you type 'exit' or 'quit'.  If you exit
the program with Control-d, the session will not be saved.


== Command line Options ==

A list of ifeffit command files can be loaded by listing them on the
command line.   For example,

 > ifeffit File1.iff File2.iff

will load File1.iff and then File2.iff before giving the command prompt.
The startup file (if found) will be loaded before any files listed on the
command-line, so macros and definitions in your startup file can be used.

To run files in 'batch mode' so that you immediately exit back to the Unix
shell, use the -x switch:
 > ifeffit -x File1.iff File2.iff

This will load File1.iff and then File2.iff and exit.

The loading of command-line files is not saved to the history file.


======================================

--Matt Newville <newville@cars.uchicago.edu>


